# Notable Python features

Python's immense success goes hand-in-hand with the fact that it is one of easist-to-read, easiest-to-write programming languages ever invented, while offering as many features and syntatic sugar as even most major languages out there.  Python programmers are well-acquainted, for example, with powerful syntax such as list slicing (`mylist[1:-1]`) and many handy operators (from `[1,2,3] + [4,5,6]` to `'hue'*3`). This project's goal is to try and document some of the features that are less widely used, but just as powerful and idiomatic that one can use in their own code.

Keep in mind, however, that there is a reason why some of these are not found out in the wild very frequently: programmers, especially those who work in a variety of languages, usually prefer to stay with standard methods of doing things rather than using a novelty mechanism just for the sake of it. While these may make your code a few lines shorter, it does so at the expense of readilibity, as even other Python programmers may not be familiar enough to immediately understand what's going on. Python code is already very short compared to most standard programming languages so really, most of the time, there isn't any need to sacrifice readibility just to reduce your file by a couple of lines of code.

On the other hand, sometimes these can greatly simplify the solution to a problem or speed up its execution - or maybe you're just writing code for yourself and you don't care about readibility issues since no one else will be looking at it. Anyway, Python is very meticulous about introducing syntax into the language itself so even if it's new, most of the time it shouldn't be too esoteric for anyone to figure out what is happening... especially if you include a comment with a link to this document, perhaps ;)

Feel free to submit [a new issue to this project's tracker](https://github.com/tukkek/notablepython/issues/new) or a pull request if you feel like I have missed out on something. However, keep in mind that I have to draw the line between "underutilized" and "standard" Python somewhere, which is why you won't see things such as annotations or generators being discussed here, even though a lot of begginer Python coders would find them to be somewhat esoteric upon first encountering them, especially if they're coming from older languages or just now learning how to code.

# Acknowledgments

I'd like to thank Satwik Kansal for the [What the f\*ck, Python?](https://github.com/satwikkansal/wtfPython) project. I have started this reference a couple of times in the past but seeing how neatly and enjoyable his own documentation was, it renewed my focus to get this done and hopefully be as fun/useful to read as his own was!
